----------- DIEGO'S LANSCE 2024 EXPERIMENT ---------------
Some general notes:
The local timezone for Los Alamos, NM is Mountain Standard (MST, GMT-7).
The timezome reported by the server rack is in UTC. This means that
to covert the timestamps of the logs to local time, we must subtract 7
hours. UTC IS 7 HOURS AHEAD OF MOUNTAIN.

For this experiment, we are using the neutron beam housed at the ICE-1
facility at Los Alamos Neutron Science Center (LANSCE), part of Los
Alamos National Laboratory (LANL).

Due to the nature of the neutron test, as well as to not
interfere with my coworkers experiments from SHREC, I am running primarily
the dynamic L1 and dynamic MMB tests. These tests dont require the
beam to be turned on and off frequently, and can run for long periods of
time.

These tests were performed with some assistance of the SHREC 2024 LANSCE
experiment crew: Diego Wildenstein, Tyler Garrett, Josh Poravanthattil,
and Thomas Plunkett.

--- Wednesday (2-21-2024)
I set up a Leda-G APU in the demo1 server rack. The Leda-G was placed
directly in the beam path while the server was positioned outside,
with shielding around it to protect it from any stray daughter particles
from the beam or the other experiments. I initially connected my host
desktop machine (GSI FA 170000000369) to the demo1 server rack with a
direct ethernet cable. However, I was not able to ssh between the two
machines. After some trial and error, I was able to connect the demo1
server rack in the beam room by connecting the server to an ethernet
switch outside of the beam room, then also connecting that switch to my
host machine. The server rack has a static IP address of 192.168.99.50,
so in order to ping the server I also had to create a new connection on
my machine, with IP address 192.168.99.1 and gateway 255.255.255.0.
Using the router can actually be somewhat spotty if the antennae aren't
adjusted. For recompiling the tests, I was not able to bring up the
license server on the demo1 rack. After an hour or so of fighting with
lmgrd and snpslmd, I decided to fall back on an easier solution of
using a VPN to access the license server at 27020@192.168.99.8, similarly
to how I normally compile programs at the SHREC lab. However, the LANL
network does not permit VPNs, so I ended up doing a phone tether connection
with my cell phone to access the VPN, which then let me acccess the
compiler license to build and make changes to the testing codes as needed.

Once I got the server setup running, I did few quick l1 static and dynamic
tests in the beam to find out how the the device would react. These initial
tests were not saved or recorded. From these tests, it seemed as though the
upset rate of the APU device was much lower than it was during the heavy
ion testing at the TAMU Cyclotron facility. There are some really interesting
differences in the physics and device interactions of these two beams,
but I may end up saving that for later on. For the purposes of this
experiment, we should know that the upset rate in the LANSCE neutron beam
is much smaller, and SEFIs occur much less frequently. This means that our
tests can be run over much longer periods of time to collect data on SEUs.
In addition, the beam at LANSCE is less precise at delivering a specified
amount of fluence; to get the effective fluence, we have to multiply the
number of neutron pulses (ticks) by a conversion factor that is determined
by the energy of the particle impact on the target. Practically speaking,
LANSCE gives us the number of neutron pulses, and a conversion factor based
on what time each test was running, and we multiply these to determine
fluence on the device. 



I modified the MMB dynamic tests slightly due to some comments from
Jacob Benson at GSI. The modification involves shuffling which VRs on the
device are used to do the addition calculation, so now we are constantly
changing which VRs and which areas of the device we are testing.
All of the radiation tests were also modified to give the epoch time
(UNIX style datestamp) at the time the log was generated as well as the
datestamp when the executable is called. Since neutron tests are much
longer, I thought that this would help to correlate them with the data we
get from the beam. 

I created a script called runAllTests.sh, which runs the l1_dynamic test
and the mmb_dynamic test for a specified number of iterations.

--- Thursday (2-22-2024)
For the first experiment on wednesday, I configured the runAllTests.sh to
do 3 runs of the l1_dynamic test, with 7200 iterations each. After each run
of the l1_dynamic test, the leda device is rebooted. After this, I also
do the same with the mmb_dynamic test, so 3 runs with 7200 iterations each.
since each iteration takes about a second, I estimated that this automated
test would take about 10-12 hours, so we turned the beam on with a plan to
let the beam test run overnight. The beam was turned off for a few minutes
after the start of the test due to some issues with another experiment.
When I came back the next day, I checked the log files, which should be in
RAT_test_2-21-24. From these logs, it looks like there were some problems
with the test. The first L1 dynamic test looks like it exited after only 2
iterations, which is strange since it should run for 7200 iterations.
According to the log, it completed successfully after reaching the max
iterations, which it lists as 2. This is incorrect, so it may be an issue
with the script I made, or it could be a chance encounter with the beam that
changed the max iters to 2. I'll have to look more into this later. For the
second run of the l1 dynamic test, the test looks like it completed fine
and ran through the whole 7200 iterations. This one worked like a charm, and
we got some pretty good SEEs and upset data from it. For the third of the
l1 dynamic test, it looks like the program failed to allocate the APU context,
and the test was never properly started. This couldve been due to the card
not being fully reset after the previous reboot or maybe some kind of
radiation event. Unfortunately this means that I got no data from this run.

For the MMB runs, the first one was similar to the first l1 dynamic where it
exited without issues after iteration 2. Since its supposed to go to 7200, and
it happened with the first test of both the l1 and MMB tests, I think this is
most likely an issue with my test script. For the second run, I got the message
that 'all cards are in use' signifying that the APU board is locked up,
which usually requires a card reboot to fix. I got little data from the MMB
tests I ran overnight. to check the status of the board, I also ran the
dev_diagnostic command after I got back in the morning, and saved the output
to the results folder. 


For the next experiment today, I am going to do a few manual runs of the
l1_dynamic and mmb_dynamic tests. I want to make sure that we have some
interesting data from each test in case the fully automated script doesn't
work for future tests.
First, I ran the l1_dynamic test for 1000 iterations. I did three runs of
this test in the morning, without rebooting the card in between. the data
for these tests has been captured in l1_dynamic/_logs/, sorted by test number
and date stamp. I noticed at this point that the server captures logs in UTC,
not local time (MST). Considering that I have already run a few tests, I
I think its best not to	update the servpacket_write_wait: Connection to 192.168.99.50 port 22: Broken pipe
UPDATE: While running test #3 and writing this journal, I encountered a
SEFI-like event that crashed the demo1 server rack. I was able to recover
the server by pausing the beam and manually power cycling the server. I
also verified that the APU is functioning after the reboot. I am going to
put whatever data I can recover from the previous test in the folder
called _logs/l1d_test3-2-22-2024-19-27-57. 
To finish the previous thought, I am not going to update the server time
as I think it will cause more confusion, so remember to convert the server
datestamps from UTC to Los Alamos time to synchronize with the beam data
we get from them. To make up for this crash, I reran the test again to
get additional upset data, which has been logged as l1d_test4.


After the crash earlier, I ran the runMMBtests.sh script, which is just
my earlier runAllTests.sh script but with the l1 dynamic test removed.
I cut this one down to 1000 iterations, which should give us a good amount
of data and help make up for the data we missed earlier. This test appears
to have completed without any issues, and has been saved as
RAT_MMB_test_2-22-24. For this test, the card is rebooted after every run.
After the test completed, running the dev_diagnostic tool, returned test
result FAIL, with a good number of failures in the RSP sections. The output
of the dev_diagnostic has also been included in the same folder. 


I ran the GXLD tests in the afternoon. For the first test, the beam went down
shortly after the gxld test was started, and the device experienced no upsets.
Because of this, I do not know if any valueable information was captured in
gxld_test1, but it is included anyways just in case. After the beam was
back online, I ran another gxld test without rebooting the card. Since the beam
was already active when starting gxld_test2, the board experienced failures
right away. This may have been due to faults already present in the device.
During this test, the device was left hanging on iteration 19 of 30, after
the step labeled "performing searches...". Without turning off the beam
(it would disturb the other experiments) I used Ctrl-C to exit the test and
rebooted the card with the ledag-ssh tool. Immediately after the card rebooted,
I ran dev_diagnostic, which reported test result PASS, and did not show any
errors. I then ran the gxld test, which did report some errors. This test is
saved as gxld_test4. After logging this test, I rebooted the card to perform
gxld_test5. This test ran without any errors, however I noted partway through
that the beam was offline again, so I'm not sure how valid this test is. 

Once the beam was back up, I ran the MMB dynamic tests. These were arranged in
the same way as the l1_dynamic tests earlier, so I navigated to the mmb_dynamic
directory and ran the following:
./build/debug/gsi_mmb_dynamic_test 1000 | tee -a mmb_dynamic_test1.txt
Using tee -a allowed me to see the output of the test while also recording it
to a text file. This works decently well, however the output is kinda laggy.
Just to make sure, I also recorded the terminal session using 'screen'. To make
sure each of my tests were clean, I also rebooted the card before each test.
With 1000 iterations, each test took about 25 minutes or so. I repeated this
process 5 times to try and collect enough SEU data, so about 2.5 hours total.

To make the best use of the beam time, I reconfigured the RAT to run 1000
iterations of both dynamic tests, with 5 iterations each. For each of these
tests, I reconfigured the logging to sort the individual tests better. The
RAT also reboots the card after every run to ensure fairness between the
tests. By my estimation, this RAT should take around 10 hours if everything
functions as expected. I then set the script to run overnight (I actually
ended up staying for the whole thing).

At 11:42 PM the previous RAT test was completed, and seemed to function without
any major errors or SEFI type events. This collection should give us some solid
SEU data for the part. I should note that during this collection run, the beam
was paused for a few minutes during two points so that adjustments could be
made to the other experiments. After the test, I ran another dev_diagnostic,
which reported failed and showed several failed locations. However, as with the
other tests, the APU was always recoverable by simply rebooting the card. Since
that test collected lots of data without any issues, I will set another one to run
until the morning. As for the timing, I miscalculated my initial estimate, and the
test only took a little over four hours. For the next morning run, I am going to
add in a periodic datestamp to the capture log. I will also double the number of
times each test is ran so that the new test runs until about 8 AM, giving me
enough time to actually sleep this time.

 ---- Friday (2/23/24)
After returning in the morning around 9AM on Friday, I discovered that the
previous test had gone all the way to the seventh mmb dynamic test before
hanging indefinitely. It looked like the code was giving a timeout error on all
APU tasks, which probably means that the server rack was no longer able to
communicate with it. In addition, dev_diagnostic was not able to access the APU
card either. However, I was still able to use the ledag-ssh tool to reboot the
card, which fixed all errors. After resetting, the card operated as normal. The
results of this test are saved in RAT_test_fridayMorning-2-23-24.

During this morning I also ran the mmb_dynamic tests 4 and 5, since I did not
have the time to complete them yesterday. These test results are in the
mmb_dynamic/_logs/mmb_dynamic_test4 and mmb_dynamic/_logs/mmb_dynamic_test5
folders respectively.

To gather more data, I am also going to rerun another RAT with 5 iterations each.
This test should allow me enough time to catch up on some other papers that I am
working on in parallel, as well as give us additional SEU data. You can never have
too much!






